---
layout:     post
date:       2009-02-02 06:36:41
edit:       2013-03-19 20:16:51
title:      "Numbers and Half True Quotes"
category:   meaningful-labor
slug:       numbers-and-half-true-quotes
---

In this post I wanted to write about <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/kalphegor/3216395914/" rel="nofollow">numbers</a> and their contributions to user interfaces, mostly on today top web applications. But after some thinking, it just didn't make sense. Numbers can be interpreted in different ways, depending on user perspective. 

For example <a href="http://kevinrose.com/" rel="nofollow">Kevin Rose</a> thinks that getting <a href="http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/01/25/kevin-rose-10-ways-to-increase-your-twitter-followers/" rel="nofollow">more followers</a> on Twitter is better, but I tend to disagree. For me is more important to write a tweet that has more value in time, than it has to my followers. What I said is also available for Digg; not the number of diggs matters, but the importance of a news in time. For this, notice what Peter Schiff said about recession in <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WRoVD0-5_5k" rel="nofollow">2006</a> or <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g4d_dE2qgNU" rel="nofollow">2007</a>.

The question that I want to address to Digg, Google or any other company: how do we measure the relevance of a news story in time? And yes, it sounds like: how do we predict the future with today available tools and technology?

bq. "There's no present. There's only the immediate future and the recent past."
&mdash; <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Carlin" rel="nofollow">George Carlin</a>

Present is a complex state of mind. You can't separate it in two, three or one hundred, because it won't be right.

bq. "Content precedes design. Design in the absence of content is not design, it's decoration."
&mdash; Jeffrey Zeldman on <a href="http://twitter.com/zeldman/status/804159148" rel="nofollow">Twitter</a> 

Design is also a structure or a form. And thinking this way around, it precedes content. It is actually the base that the content stands on; so without it, it won't be content.

??After all that being said, he wonders when his blog will hit -Digg- reddit's front page.??