---
layout: post
date: 2009-05-20 06:51:02
edit: 2013-03-19 20:08:24
title: "Do You Believe in God?"
category: coffee-in-the-morning
slug: do-you-believe-in-god
---

Yesterday evening I went to see <a href="http://www.apple.com/trailers/sony_pictures/angelsdemons/" rel="nofollow">Angels & Demons</a> and I didn't even sleep since then; coming to write this post in the morning. It's 5:44 AM and it's a Wednesday. My thoughts are clear like water, if water can be used as a measure of clarity.

My answer to my own question is "No". Let me explain myself. My mind can't understand the term of <a href="http://verset.ro/" class="follow">God</a>. It just can't, the term is too big. I can't draw something on paper when I'm thinking about God. I can't feel his presence when I'm praying, and I'm pretty sure that even an atheist did pray at least once in his lifetime.

But, I sense an energy when I pick a rock, I hear something profound when I'm in a forest, I feel a vibration when I'm talking to someone else and I know you're feeling the same. Sometimes it isn't a good vibration/energy, but it is there. What is <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_energy" rel="nofollow">this thing</a> that makes all other things connect and the way they are? Can I call it God and be done with it? I think I don't have other choice for the moment, but one day I hope I will have the chance to find out what it is.

Another thing that I'm thinking of is Universe. I believe is finite, not only in space, but also in time; and it's not expanding. Actually, this was my first existential question at age of four and it sounded like: "What's beyond Universe?" (Sorry, Mom). I had an answer right away: "It's must be finite, it has a margin and beyond it is something black, incomprehensible". In 9th grade I found a way to demonstrate myself that it was indeed finite; that was when I learned about <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_induction" rel="nofollow">mathematical induction</a>. Probably beyond Universe is <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antimatter" rel="nofollow">antimatter</a>, but who knows exactly...

??After all that being said, he wants to -sleep- dream on. It's 6:44 AM. Over.??
