---
layout: post
date: 2011-10-07 23:17:37
edit: 2011-10-07 23:17:37
title: "Theory of Everything"
category: hope-for-the-future
slug: theory-of-everything
published: false
---

Walking trough Herăstrău Park in Bucharest, I heard foreigners talking about similarities between Central Park from New York and this beautiful park from Romania. From what I saw in the american movies, I couldn't think of any similar things at that moment, but looking it up on Wikipedia, I can see what they where talking about.

The above part has nothing to do with what I was thinking. Thinking there was nothing to think about, I was actually starting to think about "actions". Actions are to me more important than objects (form of matter) because they determine not only the starting form, but more importantly the final form of something (it could be anything). If there's posible to define a set of rules of how to measure actions, how are they propagated in time and space, then I can think there's possible to define a basic theory of everything (life forms, universe itself, a star, entropy, etc.). My "actions" are very similar of Einstein's moving bodies, but they can refer to forces too (e.g. G).

My theory of everything is in a very incipient form where I observed only the characteristics of these actions. Basically, every action has a constrain variable (variable of constrain), a constant of freedom and it usually hits a roadblock.

Theory of everything:
- constrain variables
- constant of freedom
- roadblocks

